SDL 0167 revisions - Voice Assistant (#937)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/0167-app-services.md

	 <element name = "MEDIA"/>
	 <element name = "WEATHER"/>
	 <element name = "NAVIGATION"/>
+	 <element name = "VOICE_ASSISTANT"/>
</enum>
```

> Note: A new service type, `VOICE_ASSISTANT` is added. See [Voice Assistant](#Voice Assistant) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: A new service type, `VOICE_ASSISTANT`, is added. See [Voice Assistant](#Voice Assistant) section.
```

The application that has received `OnVoiceAssistantActivated` must refer to the `VoiceAssistantOperationCapabilities` shown below. Then, the application can start a voice session with a method supported by the HMI.

```xml
+	<enum name="VoiceAssistantOperatingMode">
+		<element name="AUDIO_PASSTHRU"/>
+		<element name="MICROPHONE_DIRECT"/>
+	</enum>
+
+	<struct name="VoiceAssistantOperationCapabilities">
+		<param name="voiceAssistantOperation" type="VoiceAssistantOperatingMode" minsize="1" maxsize="2" array="true" mandatory="false"/>
+	</struct>
...
	<interface name="VR" version="1.1.0" date="2017-04-27">
...
		<function name="GetCapabilities" messagetype="response">
			<param name="vrCapabilities" type="Common.VrCapabilities" minsize="1" maxsize="100" array="true" mandatory="false">
				<description>Types of input recognized by VR module.</description>
			</param>
+			<param name="voiceAssistantOperationCapabilities" type="Common.VoiceAssistantOperationCapabilities" mandatory="false">
+				<description>See VoiceAssistantOperationCapabilities.</description>
+			</param>
		</function>
	</interface>
```

##### Ways to launch Voice Assistant

> Apple CarPlay and Google Android Auto are examples where NativeVR and voice assistant are mixed up. However, there are ways on how to differentiate the use (of NativeVR and voice assistant in Apple CarPlay or Google Android Auto).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apple CarPlay and Google Android Auto are examples where NativeVR and voice assistant are mixed up. However, there are ways to differentiate the use (of NativeVR and voice assistant in Apple CarPlay or Google Android Auto).
```

- When Apple CarPlay or Google Android Auto is connected, pressing the talk button launches Apple CarPlay or Google Android Auto voice assistant while others launch NativeVR.
- A short press of talk button launches NativeVR; a long press launches Apple CarPlay or Google Android Auto voice assistant.

> In addition, there are also home devices equipped with voice assistant such as Amazon Echo and Google Nest. But, it is unlikely that other voice assistants will get mixed up because those devices use (their own) exclusive voice assistants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, there are also home devices equipped with voice assistant such as Amazon Echo and Google Nest. But, it is unlikely that other voice assistants will get mixed up because those devices use their own exclusive voice assistants.
```

> Based from the mentioned above, we have considered that both the identification by long press/short press and the identification by wake word are realistic. In here, we describe the recommended cases for each in-vehicle device system using PTT and wake word.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the above, we have considered that both the identification by long press/short press and the identification by wake word are realistic. In this proposal, we describe the recommended cases for each in-vehicle device system using PTT and wake word.
```

> 1. When NativeVR exists but has no registration of wake word or NativeVR does NOT exists, the user uses PTT button with long press/short press.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When NativeVR exists but has no registration of wake word or NativeVR does NOT exist, the user uses PTT button with long press/short press.
```

Advantage: HMI implementation and process are simple
Disadvantage: It requires an active service configuration by the user

> 2. When NativeVR exists but not always detecting/listening, the user speaks SDL wake word after pressing the PTT button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When NativeVR exists but is not always detecting/listening, the user speaks SDL wake word after pressing the PTT button.
```

Reviewer: @Kazuki-Sugimoto this may have been missed in your revisions.  Can you please address?

Advantage: Users can precisely select the service they want to use

> Disadvantage: The user may feel inconvenient because there are two actions to be performed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disadvantage: The user may feel inconvenienced because there are two actions to be performed
```

Reviewer: @Kazuki-Sugimoto this may have been missed in your revisions.  Can you please address?

Author: I'm sorry, I didn't notice it was hidden.

> 3. When NativeVR exists and always detecting/listening (NativeVR wake word only), the user speaks SDL wake word after speaking NativeVR wake word.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When NativeVR exists and is always detecting/listening (NativeVR wake word only), the user speaks SDL wake word after speaking NativeVR wake word.
```

Advantage: The user can launch without button operation

> Disadvantage: The user needs to say two wake words; NativeVR and SDL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disadvantage: The user needs to say two wake words: NativeVR and SDL
```

> Disadvantage: The user needs to speak two kinds of wake words; NativeVR and SDL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disadvantage: The user needs to say two wake words; NativeVR and SDL
```

> 4. When NativeVR exists and always detecting/listening (both NativeVR and SDL wake words are available), the user speaks SDL wake word that is equivalent to NativeVR wake words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. When NativeVR exists and is always detecting/listening (both NativeVR and SDL wake words are available), the user speaks SDL wake word that is equivalent to the NativeVR wake word.
```

> Advantage: The user can launch by just saying one of wake word

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advantage: The user can launch by just saying one wake word
```

> Advantage: The user can launch by just speaking one kind of wake words

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advantage: The user can launch by just saying one of wake word
```

> Disadvantage: HMI needs to support SDL wake words with NativeVR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disadvantage: HMI needs to support SDL wake word with NativeVR
```
